Techtonic Group Writing Assignment

When you hit https://www.techtonicgroup.com/ your browser sends a request to a server and receives a response. Your internet service provider (ISP) will do a domain name service (DNS) lookup to find the ip address connected to the server. The request, or HTTP request  (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol), will then be sent with headers (host, method, path) and possibly a post body. The response contains headers, a content type and status code, and a response body, a file or files, which your browser will then parse. When it is parsing, or translating and reading, the file it will come across asset files like a css or js file. Another request is then sent to the server which responds with a file and content type. The browser then reads through the parsed file and starts to put html, css, and javascript onto the page. 

Client side code or actions take place on the users computer and server side code or actions take place on a web server. Server side code is used to dynamically produce different data that is stored on a database or server. Server side code waits for the requests from the browser and then decides how to respond to them. A web site can be static or dynamic. In a static site when a request is made the documents are all returned to the client to be rendered. In a dynamic site only the content that is needed is returned by the server. The main function of server side code is to determine how to respond to http requests, for example, validating data and requests, receiving and storing data and retrieving the correct data to send back to the user. The main function of client side code is to parse the response and render the appearance and behavior of the web page. This includes the UI, styles, navigation, etc. 

Runtime refers to software or instructions that are executed while your program is running. Programs can be read synchronously or asynchronously. Synchronous code runs one line after the other and doesn’t go to the next line until the current line is done executing. Asynchronous mean that the lines are fired off one by one but they do not wait to be completed before firing off the next line of code.

Multiple instances of the databases connected can be created on one computer but only one instance is connected to your application. You can have multiple server side instances if you are using multiple servers. For the client-side, each request results in one instance. Files can be stored in the cache so you don’t have to make another server request for something like an image or sign in details which makes your web page faster but my understanding is that only one instance is available at a time.



